>> Scott Moss: For our middleware,
we're gonna import these two types,
next response, next request.
Well, they're not types actually.
They're light wrappers
around the native request
object that's built into the browser and
the edge function.
So if you didn't know that
there is a native request.
There's also a native response.
Those are part of the JavaScript spec.
The next versions are just wrappers
around them to have type safety and
some helper methods.
But that's it, you have to pretty
much use these on the edge as well.
>> Scott Moss: They're
just wrappers around that.
So let's do that,
let's get our middleware,
let's get our cookie name since we'll
be doing some cookie stuff in here.
And first thing is I always like to just
figure out where I'm matching, so for us,
we're gonna be matching on two things.
We're gonna be matching on anywhere
that's a child of dashboard,
that's what we wanna lock down.
And then also I wanna match on
the route because if you notice we
don't actually have a page on the route.
If you just try to go to Logos 3000
to enter your browser, it'll 404,
there's no page, right?
And I don't wanna make one
'cuz I don't need one.
So I wanna redirect any attempt to that
to actually go to slash dashboard.
>> Scott Moss: That's the actual page.
>> Scott Moss: So
I could just make a page here.
And all it does is call it
redirect to slash dashboard.
That'd be fine too, but the net page
would have had loaded up first and
then redirect it.
Or I could just do it here and never
have to make a page in the first place.
So, I'm gonna do here.
You can also set up redirects and
the next config as well you can
put redirects in here as well.
There's a handy graph in the next day's
docs that shows you in the order in
which one has a higher priority.
Is it the redirects in this file?
Is it middleware?
Is it something else,
I'll walk you through that?
But middleware pretty much has one of the
highest priorities cuz it happens before
your app is even executed.
>> Scott Moss: So what we wanna do here,
at least for the AUTH, we wanna check to
see if the request out next URL and
next URL I've always thought about this.
Is it the next URL that
it's trying to go to or
is it next URL as in the URL on next JS,
I don't know.
But that's the URL that we want.
It's one of those, okay?
That's the URL that this
request is attempting to go to.
So we're gonna check the path name of
that URL to see if it starts with slash
dashboard.
If it does, you better be authenticated.
So let's check that.
So we'll say, first let's
export our middleware function.
>> Scott Moss: And
it just receives the request.
So request as next request.
And then I'll say if
the request.nextUrl.pathname starts with
dashboard.
So request.nextUrl.pathname starts
with select /dashboard, if it does,
then basically what I wanna
do here is like, cool.
Okay, cool, if you went to /dashboard,
you better have a cookie.
Otherwise I'm gonna redirect you.
So I'm gonna say,
if not request.cookies.has(COOKIE_NAME).
Then I want to return
NextResponse.redirect to
a new URL of /sign in.
And then I have to pass in the,
request.url,
so it can understand the full path.
Or wait, I'm sorry,
the request dot URL goes to here.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: So because I pass in
a relative path to the URL instance,
I have to give it this so it's basically
gonna create a full path for this.
It's gonna take the domain,
cool, but you want this, got it.
I guess I should have spelled that right.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so that's what
happens if you try your dashboard.
And then for the home page,
it's pretty simple.
I'm just gonna copy it.
This one's simple, it's just saying, hey,
if you go here, we're gonna see you here.
That's it and
we wanna redirect, not rewrite.
Anybody know the difference?
>> Scott Moss: Is a redirect
on the client side and
the rewrite something that happens
before the user even visits the page or?
All of this happens before
you visit the page.
Okay.
This, you can think of this as,
here's the client.
Client makes a request, it hits the
middleware, the middleware does its thing,
and then it hits your app.
Your app is a whole other thing.
It's in the same repo, so
it feels it's part of the app, but
this gets deployed somewhere else.
This is sitting on every single server and
whatever deployment provider's
platform that you hosted this on and
it's the gateway to your app.
>> Scott Moss: But a redirect
will redirect you to this route,
whereas a rewrite will send you to
the route that you tried to go to.
But the value of it will
be this routes value.
>> Scott Moss: It's the best
way I could describe it.
So it was friends if I tried to go to
home, it was still similar to slash,
but what I would see what would be here.
>> Student: It actually substitutes, slash
dashboard for whatever your target is.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Student: In that URL that's passed.
>> Scott Moss: Yes, it substitutes it.
That's a great way to say it.
It does, it substitutes it.
So we don't want that in this case.
But in some cases, you might want that.
>> Student: Yeah, right.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Student: Proxies.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
Proxies, yes.
Cool, okay, let's give it a try.
Let me get rid of that error
that I had in my users, so
that's not breaking all the time.
Okay, so we got that.
We can put a log in here in our
middleware to check it out,
we'll see if we're gonna dashboard.
>> Scott Moss: Go to dashboard here and
then we'll try to go home and
see what happens.
So let me make sure I'm still running.
I'm still good.
>> Scott Moss: I'll go to dashboard.
And go look at the logs.
>> Scott Moss: You see you went
to dashboard and logged it there.
And then if I try to go to home,
it should just redirect me to
the dashboard and it does.
>> Scott Moss: It's quite powerful.
You can do some pretty
crazy stuff in there.
Cuz you can send any request to anywhere.
>> Scott Moss: This is great for
like AB testing.
It's great for.
There's really just, you can do so much.
You can even run LLMs on Edge now.
So you can do AI there if you want.
You could determine what
company is trying to
hit your website by their IP address.
You can look it up with some service.
Come back, get the name of the company or
the size of the company.
Depending on the size of the company,
you can rewrite the HTML on your website
to reflect that size of the company.
So what they see is way different
than what someone else would see,
and it's all SEO friendly.